[DOCS-540] Adding guide to setup AWS privatelink (#6445)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/guide/private-link.md

---
title: Connect to Datadog over AWS PrivateLink
kind: guide
further_reading:
    - link: 'agent/logs'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Enable log collection with the Agent.'
    - link: '/integrations/amazon_web_services/#set-up-the-datadog-lambda-function'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Collect logs from your AWS services'
---

<div class="alert alert-info">

> Datadog exposes AWS PrivateLink endpoints in us-east-1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog exposes AWS PrivateLink endpoints in <b>us-east-1</b>.
```

lets make this BOLD

</div>

This guide walks you through how to configure [AWS PrivateLink][1] for use with Datadog.

## Overview

The overall process consists of configuring an internal endpoint in your VPC that local Datadog Agents can send data to. Your VPC endpoint is then peered with the endpoint within Datadog's VPC.

{{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_diagram_schema.png" alt="VPC diagram Schema" >}}

## Create your VPC endpoint

1. Connect to the AWS console and create a new VPC endpoint:
   {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/create_vpc_endpoint.png" alt="Create VPC endpoint" style="width:60%;" >}}
2. Select **Find service by name**.

> 3. Fill the _service name_ text box with the following value depending of which private link you want to setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Fill the _service name_ text box with the following value, depending on which private link you want to set up:
```

    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_service_name.png" alt="VPC service name" style="width:70%;" >}}
    {{< tabs >}}

{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

> | Datadog Metric Service name                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Datadog Metric Service Name                                |
```

| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-056576c12b36056ca`  |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Logs" %}}

> | Datadog Log Service name                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Datadog Log Service Name                                  |
```

| --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-0a2aef8496ee043bf` |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API" %}}

> | Datadog API Service name                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Datadog API Service Name                                  |
```

| --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-02a4a57bc703929a0` |

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> 4. Hit the _verify_ button. If it does not return _Service name found_, reach out to [Datadog support team][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Hit the _verify_ button. If it does not return _Service name found_, reach out to the [Datadog support team][2].
```

5. Choose the VPC and subnets that should be peered with the Datadog VPC service endpoint.

> 6. Make sure that for **Enable DNS name** the _Enable for this Endpoint_ is checked:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Make sure that for **Enable DNS name** the _Enable for this endpoint_ is checked:
```

   {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/enabled_dns_private.png" alt="Enable DNS private" style="width:60%;" >}}
7. Choose the security group of your choice to control what can send traffic to this VPC endpoint.

    **Note**: **If you want to forward logs to Datadog through this VPC endpoint, the security group must accept inbound and outbound traffic on port `443`**.

8. Hit **Create endpoint** at the bottom of the screen. If successful, you will see this:
   {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_endpoint_created.png" alt="VPC endpoint created" style="width:60%;" >}}
9. Click on the VPC endpoint ID to check its status.

> 10. Wait for the status to move from _Pending_ to _Available_ (this can take up to 10 minutes):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Wait for the status to move from _Pending_ to _Available_. This can take up to 10 minutes.
```

    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_status.png" alt="VPC status" style="width:60%;" >}}

> Once it shows _Available_, the AWS PrivateLink is ready to be used. The next step is to update your agent configurations those new target endpoint for your Datadog Agents, Lambda forwarder, and/or other clients shipping data to Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once it shows _Available_, the AWS PrivateLink is ready to be used. The next step is to update your Agent configurations with the new target endpoint for your Datadog Agents, Lambda forwarder, and/or other clients shipping data to Datadog.
```

## Client configuration

> Select the tab below to see how to send your metrics and logs to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, or which new host url you would need to use for Datadog API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the tab below to see how to send your metrics and logs to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, or which new host URL you would need to use for Datadog API:
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

> _Available for Agent versions superior to 6.0_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Available for Agent 6.0+_
```

> To forward your metrics to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint your need to setup `pvtlink.agent.datadoghq.com` as your new metric destination:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To forward your metrics to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, set up `pvtlink.agent.datadoghq.com` as your new metric destination:
```

1. Update the `dd_url` parameter in the [Agent `datadog.yaml` configuration file][1]:

    ```yaml
    dd_url: pvtlink.agent.datadoghq.com
    ```

2. [Restart your Agent][2] to send metrics to Datadog through AWS PrivateLink.

**Note**: if you are using the container Agent, set the environment variable instead: `DD_DD_URL="pvtlink.agent.datadoghq.com"`

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-main-configuration-file
[2]: /agent/guide/agent-commands/#restart-the-agent
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Logs" %}}

> _Available for Agent versions superior to 6.14_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Available for Agent 6.14+_
```

> To forward your logs to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, you need to set up `pvtlink.logs.datadoghq.com` as your new log destination:

Reviewer 2: nit: consistency: 'you need to set up' -> 'configure', for consistency with the Logs tab.

> To forward your logs to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, you need to set up `pvtlink.logs.datadoghq.com` as your new log destination:

Author: ```suggestion
To forward your logs to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, you need to configure `pvtlink.logs.datadoghq.com` as your new log destination:
```

**Using the Datadog Agent**:

1. Add the following to the [Agent `datadog.yaml` configuration file][1]:

    ```yaml
    logs_config:
        use_http: true
        logs_dd_url: pvtlink.logs.datadoghq.com:443
    ```

>     - The `use_http` variable is used to force the Datadog Agent to send logs over HTTPS, which is the protocol supported by the VPC endpoint. More information about this is available in the [Agent log collection documentation][2].

Reviewer 2: potentially awkward phrasing: "The `use_http` variable is used to force the Datadog Agent to send logs over HTTPS, which is the protocol supported by the VPC endpoint."

possibly: "The `use_http` variable will force the Datadog Agent to send logs over HTTPS.  This configuration is required when sending logs to Datadog via AWS PrivateLink."

Author: ```suggestion
    - The `use_http` variable forces the Datadog Agent to send logs over HTTPS. This configuration is required when sending logs to Datadog via AWS PrivateLink. More information about this is available in the [Agent log collection documentation][2].
```

    - The `logs_dd_url` variable is used to send logs to the VPC endpoint.

> 2. [Restart your Agent][3] to send Logs to Datadog through AWS PrivateLink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Restart your Agent][3] to send logs to Datadog through AWS PrivateLink.
```

**Note**: if you are using the container Agent, set the following environment variables instead:

- `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_USE_HTTP=true`
- `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_LOGS_DD_URL="pvtlink.logs.datadoghq.com:443"`

**Using the Lambda forwarder**:

Add `DD_URL: pvtlink.logs.datadoghq.com` in your [Datadog Lambda function][4] environment variable to use the private link when forwarding AWS Service Logs to Datadog.

[1]: /agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-main-configuration-file
[2]: /agent/logs/?tab=tailexistingfiles#send-logs-over-https
[3]: /agent/guide/agent-commands/#restart-the-agent
[4]: /integrations/amazon_web_services/#set-up-the-datadog-lambda-function
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API" %}}

> To send data to Datadog API or consume data from it through this new private link, replace your API call host signature `api.datadoghq.com/api/` with `pvtlink.api.datadoghq.com/api/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send data to the Datadog API or consume data from it through this new private link, replace your API call host signature `api.datadoghq.com/api/` with `pvtlink.api.datadoghq.com/api/`.
```

---

> title: Set up a AWS PrivateLink from AWS us-east-1 region to Datadog

Reviewer 3: maybe "Connect to Datadog over AWS PrivateLink"

kind: guide
further_reading:
    - link: 'agent/logs'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Enable log collection with the Agent.'
    - link: '/integrations/amazon_web_services/#set-up-the-datadog-lambda-function'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Collect logs from your AWS services'
---

<div class="alert alert-info">

> The Datadog PrivateLink setup is only available to in AWS us-east-1 region.

Reviewer 3: "Datadog exposes AWS PrivateLink endpoints in us-east-1. "

</div>

> This guide walks you through how to configure [AWS PrivateLink][1] for use with Datadog. AWS PrivateLink simplifies the security of data shared with Datadog by eliminating the exposure of data to the public internet.

Reviewer 3: This reads awkward.

## Overview

> The overall process consists of configuring an internal endpoint in your VPC that local Datadog Agents can send data to. Your VPC endpoint is then peered with the endpoint within Datadog VPC.

Reviewer 3: within Datadog's VPC

{{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_diagram_schema.png" alt="VPC diagram Schema" >}}

## Create your VPC endpoint

1. Connect to the AWS console and create a new VPC endpoint:
   {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/create_vpc_endpoint.png" alt="Create VPC endpoint" style="width:60%;" >}}
2. Select **Find service by name**.
3. Fill the _service name_ text box with the following value depending of which private link you want to setup:

>     {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_service_name.png" alt="VPC service name" style="width:70%;" >}}

Reviewer 2: The vpce service name here probably doesn't need to be obfuscated, since we have "public" service names now and they are listed below.  I suspect this is an artifact from the original docs shared with the initial customers who each had different service names.

Author: indeed, it's not a big deal tbh.. we will update screenshots in another PR

    {{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab "Metric" %}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}
```

| Datadog Metric Service name                                |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-056576c12b36056ca`  |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Logs" %}}

| Datadog Log Service name                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-0a2aef8496ee043bf` |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API" %}}

| Datadog API Service name                                   |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
|  `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-02a4a57bc703929a0` |   |

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> 4. Hit the _verify_ button. If it does not return _Service name Found_, reach out to [Datadog support team][2].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Hit the _verify_ button. If it does not return _Service name found_, reach out to [Datadog support team][2].
```

5. Choose the VPC and subnets that should be peered with the Datadog VPC service endpoint.

>    **Note**: The VPC must be in `us-east-1` and it's recommend to set subnets with all of the following availability zone IDs: `use1-az6`, `use1-az2`, and `use1-az4`:

Reviewer 3: We can remove this note now

>    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/saved_az.png" alt="Saved AZ" style="width:60%;" >}}

Author: I just removed the image it's easier :)

7. Choose the security group of your choice to control what can send traffic to this VPC endpoint.

    **Note**: **If you want to forward logs to Datadog through this VPC endpoint, the security group must accept inbound and outbound traffic on port `443`**.

8. Hit **Create endpoint** at the bottom of the screen. If successful, you will see this:
   {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_endpoint_created.png" alt="VPC endpoint created" style="width:60%;" >}}
9. Click on the VPC endpoint ID to check its status.
10. Wait for the status to move from _Pending_ to _Available_ (this can take up to 10 minutes):
    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_status.png" alt="VPC status" style="width:60%;" >}}

Once it shows _Available_, the AWS PrivateLink is ready to be used. The next step is to update your agent configurations those new target endpoint for your Datadog Agents, Lambda forwarder, and/or other clients shipping data to Datadog.

## Client configuration

Select the tab below to see how to send your metrics and logs to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, or which new host url you would need to use for Datadog API:

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab "Metric" %}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}
```

</div>

This guide walks you through how to configure [AWS PrivateLink][1] for use with Datadog. AWS PrivateLink simplifies the security of data shared with Datadog by eliminating the exposure of data to the public Internet.

## Overview

The overall process consist in configuring an internal endpoint in your VPC that local Datadog Agents can send data to. Your VPC endpoint is then peered with the endpoint within Datadog VPC.

{{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_schema.png" alt="VPC Schema" >}}

## Create your VPC endpoint

1. Connect to the AWS console and create a new VPC endpoint:
    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/create_vpc_endpoint.png" alt="Create VPC endpoint" style="width:60%;" >}}
2. Select **Find service by name**.
3. Fill the *service name* text box with: `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-<UNIQUE_ID>` where `<UNIQUE_ID>` is the ID communicated by the Datadog [Support team][2]:
    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_service_name.png" alt="VPC service name" style="width:60%;" >}}
4. Hit the *verify* button.

>     **Note**: If it does not return *Service name Found*, reach out to [Datadog support team][2] as this means that your AWS account id was not authorised to connect on the Datadog VPC service endpoint.

Reviewer: does this button really return "Service name Found" with that exact capitalization?

(also, capitalize `id` to `ID`)

5. Choose the VPC and subnets that should be peered with the Datadog VPC service endpoint.

>     **Note**: The VPC must be in `us-east-1` and it's recommend to set subnets with all of the following Availability zones id: `use1-az6`, `use1-az2`, and `Use1-az4`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note**: The VPC must be in `us-east-1` and it's recommend to set subnets with all of the following availability zone IDs: `use1-az6`, `use1-az2`, and `use1-az4`:
```

    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/saved_az.png" alt="Saved AZ" style="width:60%;" >}}
6. Choose the security group of your choice to control what can send traffic to this VPC endpoint.
    **The security group must accept inbound and outbound traffic on port `443`**.

> 7. Hit **Create endpoint** at the bottom of the screen, if successful you should see this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Hit **Create endpoint** at the bottom of the screen. If successful, you will see this:
```

    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_endpoint_created.png" alt="VPC endpoint created" style="width:60%;" >}}
8. Click on the VPC endpoint ID to check its status.

> 9. Wait for the status to move from *Pending* to *Available* (it can take up to 10 minutes):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Wait for the status to move from *Pending* to *Available* (this can take up to 10 minutes):
```

    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_status.png" alt="VPC status" style="width:60%;" >}}

Once it shows *Available*, the AWS PrivateLink is ready to be used. The next step is to update your configurations to use `logs.vpce.datadoghq.com` as the target endpoint for your Datadog Agents, Lambda forwarder, and/or other clients shipping logs to Datadog.

> ## Forwarding your Logs to Datadog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Forwarding your logs to Datadog
```

### Get the DNS name

From the created VPC endpoint details, select the DNS name:

{{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/dns_name_selection.png" alt="DNS name selection" style="width:80%;" >}}

### Configure the Datadog Agent

1. Add the following to the [Agent `datadog.yaml` configuration file][2]:

    ```yaml
    logs_config:
      use_http: true
      logs_dd_url: logs.vpce.datadoghq.com:443
    ```

>     * The `use_http` variable is used to force the Datadog Agent to send Logs in HTTPS which is the protocol supported by the VPC endpoint. More information about this available in the [Agent Log collection documentation][3].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The `use_http` variable is used to force the Datadog Agent to send logs over HTTPS, which is the protocol supported by the VPC endpoint. More information about this is available in the [Agent log collection documentation][3].
```

>     * The `logs_dd_url` variable is used to send Logs to the VPC endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The `logs_dd_url` variable is used to send logs to the VPC endpoint.
```

---

> title: How to setup a PrivateLink to Datadog?

Reviewer 3: How to setup AWS PrivateLink with Datadog

kind: guide
further_reading:
- link: "agent/logs"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Enable log collection with the Agent."
- link: "/integrations/amazon_web_services/#set-up-the-datadog-lambda-function"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Collect logs from your AWS services"
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">

> The PrivateLink setup is only available to <b>forward Logs to Datadog in AWS us-east-1 region</b>. Reach out to <a href="/help">Datadog Support</a> to enable this feature for your organization.

Reviewer 3: Lets remove this warning. Also we support logs metrics, and api intake.

</div>

> The goal of this guide is to explain how to configure a PrviateLink for a given VPC. This allows you to send your log traffic to Datadog without going over the public internet, thereby reducing transit costs and improving security.

Reviewer 3: This guide will walk you through how to configure AWS PrivateLink (link to AWS privatelink here https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/) for use with DAtadog.  This allows you to emit telemetry to Datadog without going over the public internet.  

(no need to mention cost here)

## Overview

> Datadog provides a VPC endpoint service which lives in the AWS `us-east-1` region.

Reviewer 3: I dont think VPC endpoint is the right term here. probably can drop the region in this sentence. we've said us-east-1 only multiple times already.

The overall process consist in configuring an internal VPC endpoint that local Datadog Agents can send data to. This VPC endpoint is then peered with the Datadog VPC endpoint service.

> {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_schema.png" alt="VPC Schema" >}}

Reviewer 3: Can we work with design on better images here?  Also lets avoid abbreviating Datadog to DD.

Author: Yup, already open a request to design for this.

1. Connect to the AWS console and create a new VPC endpoint:
   {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/create_vpc_endpoint.png" alt="Create VPC endpoint" style="width:60%;" >}}
2. Select **Find service by name**.

> 3. Fill the _service name_ text box with the following value, depending on which private link you want to set up:

Reviewer 2: nit: service name -> Service Name

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5319942/75369108-687c6200-5888-11ea-8bc8-8c4f2f7ef9c3.png)

Possible alternate wording: "depending on which service you want to establish AWS PrivateLink for" ?  Not sure if that's more or less awkward, but am unsure about using "private link" like this.

Reviewer: Good points, editing

> 3. Fill the _service name_ text box with the following value, depending on which private link you want to set up:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Fill the _Service Name_ text box according to which service you want to establish AWS PrivateLink for:
```

    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_service_name.png" alt="VPC service name" style="width:70%;" >}}
    {{< tabs >}}

{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

| Datadog Metric Service Name                                |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-056576c12b36056ca`  |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Logs" %}}

| Datadog Log Service Name                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-0a2aef8496ee043bf` |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API" %}}

| Datadog API Service Name                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-east-1.vpce-svc-02a4a57bc703929a0` |

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

4. Hit the _verify_ button. If it does not return _Service name found_, reach out to the [Datadog support team][2].
5. Choose the VPC and subnets that should be peered with the Datadog VPC service endpoint.

> 6. Make sure that for **Enable DNS name** the _Enable for this endpoint_ is checked:

Reviewer 2: Endpoint is not capitalized on the AWS page:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5319942/75368986-3bc84a80-5888-11ea-8a5a-91e349c8212d.png)

8. Hit **Create endpoint** at the bottom of the screen. If successful, you will see this:
   {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_endpoint_created.png" alt="VPC endpoint created" style="width:60%;" >}}
9. Click on the VPC endpoint ID to check its status.
10. Wait for the status to move from _Pending_ to _Available_. This can take up to 10 minutes.
    {{< img src="agent/guide/private_link/vpc_status.png" alt="VPC status" style="width:60%;" >}}

Once it shows _Available_, the AWS PrivateLink is ready to be used. The next step is to update your Agent configurations with the new target endpoint for your Datadog Agents, Lambda forwarder, and/or other clients shipping data to Datadog.

## Client configuration

Select the tab below to see how to send your metrics and logs to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, or which new host URL you would need to use for Datadog API:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

_Available for Agent 6.0+_

> To forward your metrics to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, set up `pvtlink.agent.datadoghq.com` as your new metric destination:

Reviewer 2: nit: `set up` -> `set`, or possibly `set up` -> `configure`

> To forward your metrics to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, set up `pvtlink.agent.datadoghq.com` as your new metric destination:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To forward your metrics to Datadog using this new VPC endpoint, configure `pvtlink.agent.datadoghq.com` as your new metric destination:
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "API" %}}

> To send data to the Datadog API or consume data from it through this new private link, replace your API call host signature `api.datadoghq.com/api/` with `pvtlink.api.datadoghq.com/api/`.

Reviewer 2: nit: consistency: here we say 'using this new VPC endpoint', in logs we say 'send logs to the VPC endpoint', but here in the API section we say 'through this new private link',

Reviewer: this is also a good point

> To send data to the Datadog API or consume data from it through this new private link, replace your API call host signature `api.datadoghq.com/api/` with `pvtlink.api.datadoghq.com/api/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send data to the Datadog API or consume data from it through this new endpoint, replace your API call host signature `api.datadoghq.com/api/` with `pvtlink.api.datadoghq.com/api/`.
```
